Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;

Function makeCoffee(type, sugar, cream)
SET coffee machine to the type of brew you would like
ADD type coffee in coffee machine
ADD water to coffee machine
START coffee machine
POUR coffee into cup
    IF (sugar equals true)
        THEN Add sugar to taste
        ELSE don’t add two sugars
    ENDIF
    IF (cream equals true)
	THEN Add cream to taste
	ELSE don't add cream
    ENDIF
Serve
END


Washing dishes;

Function washDishes(soap)
ADD all dishes to the sink
TURN on hot water
ADD soap to the sponge
WASH dish with soap and water
	IF (dish equals clean)
	   THEN place in drying rack
	   ELSE wash again
	END IF
	IF all dishes are clean
	   THEN wash and put back sponge and turn off water
	   ELSE wash next dish
	END IF
END



A choice of your own.

Function arnoldPalmer(sugar)
SET a drinking glass on the counter
SET lemonade, iced tea, and ice tray on the counter
POUR a few ice cubes in glass
ADD lemonade 
	IF (lemonade equals glass half full)
	   THEN stop pouring
	   ELSE keep pouring
	END IF
ADD iced tea
	IF (iced tea equals glass full)
	   THEN stop pouring
	   ELSE keep pouring
	END IF
IF (sugar equals true)
	THEN add sugar to taste
	ELSE do not add sugar
DRINK
END


As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

Rubiks - created a game based on algorithms that has stood the test of time

Instagram and Facebook - Social media is a very hot topic right now. Both use algorithms to determine what the user sees. Everything from other users' posts to advertisements. Everyone is flocking here to try use the algorithms to their advantage. 

Amazon - one of the largest companies in the world uses algorithms for what products we see and how they get to us.



Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An efficient algorithm simply is when you accomplish the task you are trying to carry out in the least amount of steps and never repeating yourself. An inefficient algorithm could repeat itself or could have many extra steps that are not necessary. Simplicity I think is key to efficiency when possible.
